** Project Title BizCardX: Extracting Business Card Data with OCR **
👉Step 1: Install the required packages

Make sure you have Python installed on your system. You can install Streamlit, easyOCR, and any database management system like SQLite or MySQL using pip.
Open your terminal or command prompt and run the following commands:

pip install streamlit
pip install easyocr


If you choose to use SQLite, you don't need to install it separately, as it is included in Python's standard library. 
For MySQL, you can install the necessary package using:

pip install mysql-connector-python


👉Step 2: Design the user interface

Create a new Python file (e.g., app.py) and start designing the Streamlit user interface.  Streamlit allows you to create a simple UI with Python code. 
You can use widgets like st.file_uploader, st.button, and st.text_input to guide users through the process of uploading the business card image and extracting its information.


👉Step 3: Implement the image processing and OCR

In the same app.py file, use easyOCR to extract relevant information from the uploaded business card image. 
You can use Python libraries like PIL (Pillow) for image processing to enhance the image quality before passing it to the OCR engine. 
The easyOCR library will return the extracted text, which you can save for further processing.


👉Step 4: Display the extracted information

Once you have extracted the information using easyOCR, display it in a clean and organized manner in the Streamlit GUI. 
You can use widgets like st.table, st.text, and st.markdown to present the information to the user.


👉Step 5: Implement database integration

For this step, you need to choose between SQLite and MySQL, or any other database system you prefer. 
SQLite is suitable for smaller applications, while MySQL is better suited for larger-scale projects.

SQLite Approach: If you decide to use SQLite, you don't need to install anything extra, as it comes bundled with Python. 
You can use the sqlite3 module in Python to interact with the SQLite database.

MySQL Approach: If you choose MySQL, you need to install the mysql-connector-python package (as shown in Step 1). 
Then, you can use the mysql.connector module to interact with the MySQL database.

Create a new Python file (e.g., database.py) to handle database interactions like creating tables, inserting data, retrieving data, updating data, and deleting data.


👉Step 6: Test the application

Run your Streamlit application using the following command in your terminal or command prompt:

streamlit run app.py
This will start the Streamlit server, and you can access your application in your web browser at http://localhost:8501.

Test the application thoroughly by uploading various business card images, extracting information and verifying that the data is correctly stored in the database.

👉Step 7: Improve the application

We can continuously improve the application by adding new features, optimizing the code, and fixing any bugs you encounter. 
We can also consider adding user authentication and authorization to make the application more secure and restrict access to certain functionalities.



📌So, here are the step-by-step instructions to install DB Browser for SQLite (DB4S) on your system:

Step 1: Go to the Official Website

Visit the official website of DB Browser for SQLite: https://sqlitebrowser.org/

Step 2: Choose Your Operating System

On the home page, you will see download options for different operating systems (Windows, macOS, Linux). Click on the download link that corresponds to your operating system.

Step 3: Download the Installer

Clicking the download link will take you to the download page. Download the installer file for your operating system. For example, if you are using Windows, you will download an executable file with a ".exe" extension.

Step 4: Run the Installer

Once the installer is downloaded, locate the file on your computer and run it. The installation process will begin.

Step 5: Follow the Installation Wizard

Follow the instructions provided by the installation wizard. The steps may vary slightly depending on your operating system, but in general, you'll need to:

Accept the terms and conditions.
Choose the installation location (or use the default location).
Choose additional components (optional).
Create desktop shortcuts (optional).
Step 6: Complete the Installation

After you've completed the installation wizard, the DB Browser for SQLite will be installed on your computer.

Step 7: Launch DB Browser for SQLite

Once the installation is finished, you can launch DB Browser for SQLite from your desktop shortcut or by searching for it in your applications menu.

Step 8: Open Your SQLite Database

With DB Browser for SQLite open, you can use the "Open Database" option to browse to the location of your business_cards.db file and open it. The database will then be displayed in the DB4S interface, allowing you to view, edit, and query the data.


We successfully installed DB Browser for SQLite. You can now use it to interact with your SQLite database and view the data stored in it.








